Version 2.7.x
=============

Table of contents
-----------------

-  `Introduction <#introduction>`__
-  `Version information <#version-information>`__
-  `Deliverables <#deliverables>`__
-  Feature requests / enhancements implemented
-  `GUI revamp <#gui-revamp>`__
-  `Groups <#groups>`__
-  `Admin page <#admin-page>`__
-  `Upgrades <#upgrades>`__
-  `Air gapped SureDrop <#air-gapped-suredrop>`__
-  `Windows 2019 <#windows-2019>`__
-  `Defects resolved <#defects-resolved>`__
-  ``%`` in file name
-  SMTP errors
-  Visual indicators for group policy
-  ``administrators`` group removed
-  Azure AD
-  `Upgrade <#upgrade>`__
-  `Downgrade <#downgrade>`__
-  `Minor Releases <#minor-releases>`__

Introduction
------------

Welcome to the June 2019 release of SureDrop version 2.7.0. There are a
few significant updates in this version that we hope you will like, some
of the key highlights include:

-  `GUI revamp <#gui-revamp>`__
-  `Groups <#groups>`__
-  `Admin page <#admin-page>`__
-  `Upgrades <#upgrades>`__
-  `Air gapped SureDrop <#air-gapped-suredrop>`__
-  `Windows 2019 <#windows-2019>`__

You can watch the SureDrop
`overview <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MQYQ9lCl608>`__ and
`walk-through <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hq71-FLh-eg>`__ videos in
case you're not familiar with the system. Other technical know-hows
about the product can be found here in
`SureDrop Documentation <https://suredrop.readthedocs.io>`__.

Version Information
-------------------

+------------------+-------------------+
| Component        | Version           |
+==================+===================+
| Docker images    | ``2.7.0-final``   |
+------------------+-------------------+
| User Interface   | ``2.7.0-final``   |
+------------------+-------------------+
| API              | ``2.7.0``         |
+------------------+-------------------+
| Database         | ``2.7.0``         |
+------------------+-------------------+

Deliverables
------------

-  **Docker images** - which can either be downloaded from `Docker
   Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`__ with the credentials provided during
   installation; or through the ``create-suredrop.bat`` installation and
   upgrade script.

-  **Docker volumes** - which are installed automagically as part of the
   installation process. We now have a volume associated with each of
   our containers.

-  **Release notes** - which is this document itself.

Feature requests / enhancements implemented
-------------------------------------------

GUI revamp
~~~~~~~~~~

We have completely redesigned and streamlined our GUI to make it
snazzier, user friendly and easy to use. The introduction of a
collapsible sidebar for the groups and admin functions provide more real
estate for smaller screens. The user management page has been decoupled
from the groups and moved to where it always belonged; in the admin
page. Company settings have moved to the admin page too. User management
for groups is done by clicking the button with a plus sign. There's a
lot more intuitive simplifications to delight the user.

Groups
~~~~~~

SureDrop now has the ability to rename groups and have multiple groups
with the same name. Group policy edits are now more streamlined in the
GUI. We've also added visual indicators for whether a group is read only
or has sharing disabled. The default ``administrators`` group in older
versions has now been removed due to security reasons. The group names
have been obfuscated by using a SHA256 hash. This not only hides the
group name in the storage location but also gives us the ability to have
some special characters like a space in the group name. Groups imported
from Azure AD or other windows directory services have a colon ``:``
character in their unique identifier.

Admin page
~~~~~~~~~~

SureDrop now has an admin page for customising company settings and
managing users. This page can be opened only by a SureDrop
administrator.

Upgrades
~~~~~~~~

SureDrop now creates the client database on the fly during initialising
the company. Database upgrades for on-prem installations are no longer
complicated (as the previous release notes stated). The system
administrator needs to login to the system after a backend upgrade, and
open the company settings dialog from within the general settings menu
in the admin page. This window gives the administrator the ability to
upgrade his database with a single click!!

Air gapped SureDrop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

SureDrop can now operate in an air gapped on-prem network without
internet connectivity. We've enhanced the GUI and backend by removing
any dependency on external resources at runtime. However, it still needs
internet connectivity to install the system. There are a couple of minor
caveats to this deployment model

-  The brand logo will need to be locally sourced from inside the air
   gapped network.

-  The ``xip.suredrop.com.au`` X.509 certificate will no longer work or
   be valid. So the user either needs to setup custom private key
   infrastructure or use the IP address of the server in the browser.

Windows 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~

SureDrop can now be installed on-prem on a Windows 2019 server! The
install instructions can be found :doc:`here <../intro/Windows 2019>`.

.. Note::
   Prior versions only support windows 2016 for on-prem deployments.

Defects resolved
----------------

-  **``%`` in file name** - This was an edge case wherein you could
   upload files with a ``%`` character in the file name but trying to
   download such files caused a ``400 Bad Request`` in nginx reverse
   proxy and the system to logout.
-  **SMTP errors** - We've added some extra logging around SMTP failures
   which now enable us to further narrow down the failure(s) as user or
   system errors.
-  **Visual indicators for group policy** - We've added visual
   indicators for whether a group is read only or has sharing disabled
   on the top right hand corner of the screen.
-  **``administrators`` group removed** - Previous versions had a
   default administrators group created when the system was initialised.
   Problem was that group was encrypted using a default key in the
   database. We've now removed that group and allowed the user to create
   their own groups using their own encryption keys.
-  **Azure AD** - Importing users from Azure AD failed if the unique ID
   exceeded 100 characters. This limit has now been increased to 200
   characters. The unique ID is longer than usual because it is made out
   of the Azure application's tenant ID and the user's full name, ID and
   phone number.

Upgrade
-------

SureDrop upgrade process is seamless and easy via the
``create-suredrop.bat`` script as described in 
:ref:`upgrade`.

Downgrade
---------

SureDrop is a continuously delivered system, it **does not support
downgrades**. In case of any new or induced bugs we fix them and move
forward in terms of versioning.

Minor Releases
--------------

Version 2.7.1 - 21st June 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Download file**: Files uploaded using previous versions of SureDrop
   (any version before 2.7.0) could not be downloaded after upgrading to
   2.7.0. This was due to hashing the group names using SHA256 hash. It
   was resolved by falling back to the legacy group names without the
   hash in case the file could not be found in the new location.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.2 - 21st June 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Browser caching**: It was noticed that most Chromium browsers were
   aggressively caching SureDrop's HTML, CSS and JavaScript code. Due to
   this aggressive caching the system didn't work well after an upgrade,
   especially if the upgrade had any changes to those UI components.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.3 - 26th June 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Large file uploads** - Files larger than 10 GB are now broken into
   100 MB chunks instead of the previous 10 MB chunks. This is done to
   reduce the performance overhead on the client browsers and make it
   more usable.
-  **Upload progress bar** - We discovered that during an upload if the
   user clicked on some other group or tried to use some other module of
   SureDrop, then he would lose the ability to get back to the progress
   bar. There was no way to view the progress of say a large file upload
   after moving away from the current group. This has now been resolved
   and the progress bar is always visible to the current user until the
   session is valid and the upload queue is not empty.
-  **Apostrophe in group description** - We resolved a minor issue with
   apostrophe character ``'`` in the group description. Earlier while
   creating a group this would get converted to an underscore ``_`` but
   could be changed to an apostrophe using ``Edit Group`` functionality.
   Now, group descriptions can contain apostrophe characters.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.4 - 27th June 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Health check** - now prints the running container names only, not
   the process status of the entire docker stack.

-  **Init screen** - used to popup on SaaS installations after upgrading
   backend version.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.5 - 28th June 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Logging** - sensitive information such as connection strings and
   passwords have been redacted from server logs.

-  **Tour** - used to popup every time the user logged in and there was
   no groups. Now it remembers the user selection and pops up only once
   at the first login.

-  **Resizing browser** - Sometimes the window did not draw correctly
   the first time it was loaded, a refresh was required to properly draw
   the screen.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.6 - 3rd July 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Certificate errors** - sending automated emails from SureDrop was
   failing due to certificate validation errors from custom SMTP
   servers. SureDrop now trusts all x509 certificates while sending
   automated emails.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.7 - 9th July 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Azure federated login** - was not working because SureDrop couldn't
   figure out the rest API endpoint after the redirect from Microsoft.
   This was a timing issue which was resolved by adding the rest
   endpoint as a state information in the federated login request. This
   state information is passed back in the response and therefore
   SureDrop doesn't need any further lookup for it.

-  **Azure/LDAP sync** - SureDrop adds users while synchronising Azure
   AD or local LDAP directories. If the user existed in the system it
   was deleting their passwords while doing so. This lead to a timing
   bug when the administrator enabled 2FA for the entire company, the
   LDAP users couldn't login any more if the background synchronisation
   happened before they attempted their first login with 2FA enabled.
   The issue has been corrected by not deleting the user password when
   adding them as part of synchronisation. This is a right fix because
   the login credentials for these imported users are managed in Azure
   AD or LDAP directory, not in SureDrop.

-  **Validate button in welcome page** - The validate button in the
   welcome page for enabling 2FA was not working. This is supposed to
   validate the 2FA code and redirect the user to the login page if
   successful or show a meaningful error message to the user. This has
   now been fixed as per this expectation.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.8 - 12th July 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Init screen** - The init screen now refreshes correctly after the
   init button is pressed.

-  **Update init screen** - It is now possible to update the defaults in
   the init screen from the admin page

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.9 - 17th July 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **ICAP Server** - SureDrop now supports installing and configuring an
   open source :doc:`ICAP <../integrations/ICAP>` server.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.10 - 25th July 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Default sorting of file table** - Between versions 1.2.18 and 2.7.9
   we had lost the ability to sort the table containing files and
   folders correctly. This defect has now been fixed and now all folders
   are listed before files and they're all sorted alphabetically by
   default.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.11 - 26th July 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Browser Caching** - In some cased the browser cache would not allow
   the new version of SureDrop to be loaded in the browser. By default
   the Index.html page has now been set to *no-store* via the http
   header which should prevent this from happening in the future.

.. code:: yaml

        location = /index.html {
          internal;
          add_header Cache-Control 'no-store';
        }

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.12 - 1st August 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Resolved issue where sub-directories were incorrectly created one
   directory up when creating a new directory.
-  Resolved issue where the group list on the left did not refresh
   correctly

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.13 - 16th August 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Resolved XSS scripting vulnerability.
-  Resolved issue where forward and back slashes were interpreted
   incorrectly
-  Resolved issue where some documents were shown twice in the document
   list
-  Resolved issue where the group icons were not visible if disabled.
-  Resolved issue where add/remove users was displayed incorrectly for
   external windows groups

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.14 - 22nd August 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Resolved multiple email alerts sent from sharing a folder or file
-  Email alerts are now only sent when a file a shared file is
   downloaded, and the filename is now highlighted.
-  Fixed an issue where some files did not display correctly when
   shared.
-  Fixed an issue where email file notifications showed the group GUID
   instead of the group name

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.15 - 26nd August 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Resolved issue where certificates were not installed correctly

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.16 - 29th August 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Resolved issue where DNS hosts were not resolving correctly
-  Added option to reboot docker stack to create-suredrop
-  Added separate option to install a root ca to create-suredrop

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.17 - 6th September 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Delete folder keeps folder structure** – create a new folder with
   the same name as a deleted folder and it used to show up all old
   subdirectories and files of the older one. Creating a new folder with
   the same name as a deleted or purged folder has now been restricted.
   Please ask your system administrator to recover the older folder.
-  **XSS filter removed ALL ``&``** - we made it impossible to add a
   ``&lt;`` (good) but also broke ``R&D`` (unfortunate). Thus we have
   added the ability to use ``&`` in the secure group name and folder
   names. We still however don't allow ``&`` character in the company
   name and file name.
-  **Multiline group description** - it was impossible to add multiline
   descriptions for groups as pressing the ``Enter`` key used to close
   the modal window. We've corrected this and now the user can enter
   multiline descriptions using ``Enter``. That means to close the modal
   window the user either needs to click on the submit buttons or press
   the ``Esc`` key.
-  **Downloading deleted files from shares** - SureDrop now doesn't
   allow downloading files which are not available (deleted / purged /
   processing / unavailable) from file share links. Deleted files can
   still be downloaded from within SureDrop if the user has appropriate
   permissions.
-  **Icons missing** - Few dropdown menu icons were missing from the
   ``Bulk Actions`` button in ``Group Membership`` section.
-  **Grammar in shared page** - The page for accessing shared files had
   a grammatical error. It used to say ``the page will expire ...`` for
   expired pages. This has been resolved and the new heading reads
   ``This page expired ...``
-  **Failed to download shared files** - If file(s) were shared without
   the ``Receive notifications`` option selected, users couldn't
   download those files from the shared link. Clicking the file(s) would
   result in a JSON response
   ``{"error":"Object reference not set to an instance of an object."}``.
   It was a coding error and has now been resolved.
-  **SureDrop Tour** - The ``Show Tour`` user preference is now a
   singleton object. It cancels (/removes) and existing tours before
   popping up the tour start confirmation dialog.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.19 - 11th September 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Typing error** - Notification email said
   ``The following file has been download``. This has now been changed
   to ``The following file has been downloaded``.

-  **Notification email** - Notification email recipient was incorrect.
   When a SureDrop user A shared a file with an external user B with the
   notification option turned on, then on downloading the shared file
   SureDrop was sending notification email to user B instead of A. This
   was a coding error which has been resolved.

.. raw:: html

   <hr>

Version 2.7.20 - 3rd October 2019
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  **Audit notifications missing** - Some audit notifications were not
   being logged from shared files.

